Now, let's go ahead and start writing some test on the helper class.
Okay. So I'm going to write a test for getCount.
Now, let's start with our test annotation.
I'm going to write public void test1 and I'm going to write assertEquals.
I need to call that method first of all,
so I'm going to call getCount.
What does getCount take?
It takes a list of strings.
So I'm going to create a list of strings over here.
Okay. It's auto-importing strings.
Let me call them empNames,
and what I'm going to do here is I'm going to create
a list of names, Sareeta and Udacity.
Now this is not a list of strings.
So how do we create a list of strings is we call Arrays.asList from this.
So now we have a list of strings here.
Now we want to pass this value into here, into this message,
and we want to get this in a variable,
so I did an option enter.
A good developer would know at least a few shortcuts,
if not all, and this comes in very handy because it reduces your development time.
It's like being extremely good at typing but just better.
So I'm going to introduce a new variable here,
let's call this actual.
So here we go.
So now why did I call this actual?
I called this actual because this is
the actual value that I obtained when I called the helper method.
So this is my actual,
and what I need to add first is the expected.
So let's put the expected.
So what would be the count of this?
The count of this is going to be two.
So let's run this test and see what happens.
So the actual was zero,
and the expected was two.
All right. Now, that doesn't seem right.
Let's take a look at what happened here,
and this is when I'm going to introduce the concept called debugging to you.
So how you would debug is you would right-click and click on this option,
the second option that we spoke about earlier,
it's called Debug test.
Now, debugger can be one on actual code as well,
as well as on tests,
and what debug helps you to do is it helps you to navigate slowly through
your code to identify where exactly in the code did you have a problem.
So let's put some breakpoints.
Breakpoints are nothing but letting the ID or intelligent,
in this case, know that this is where I want the program to stop.
So I'm going to right-click on this and click Debug.
Now you see its stopped at this debug point,
and I'm going to go inside this method and I'm going to add this,
this again, and these are
the options that are going to help me navigate inside the debug window.
One more thing that you might want to look at is this particular option called Evaluate.
Now this is an extremely handy tool that the ID provides to us.
I can copy this entire piece of code and add that over here and click Evaluate,
which tells me the output that this would give before it's one.
So that's extremely handy.
Another thing that you should be taking a look at is this Variables section,
which tells us what
the insides of this particular string or whatever variables are available.
What do those variables contain?
What is the state of those variables or the values inside them?
So that is how you would debug this further,
and let's debug this.
So the string size is two and we ran a stream on,
and then filtered out is empty,
and then did a count on it.
So let's run this one more time.
So I'm going to evaluate this method again,
and let's open an Evaluate window.
These are called views and I'm going to copy this piece of code out here.
I'm going to copy, place it over here,
and see if it's evaluated to zero.
So it already tells me that the value is going to be zero.
So now I'm going to play around a little bit and see what happens,
and I see that there are two values.
I get the first value here,
which is going to be Sareeta, is an empty.
No. So here it's going to filter it out,
which means that the count is zero.
What I'm going to do right now is I'm going to change this code.
At one time, I can test what is going to be the value.
So I'm going to run that again.
Okay. That will wait again.
I'm going to put this here and okay.
So this is what I wanted.
So this tool is extremely helpful.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to stop this test.
I'm going to go and modify my code and add that,
and now I'm going to rerun the test.
Since I've already debugged it,
I'm just going to run it this time.
Okay. Great. We just wrote our first successful test.
Now let's look at what we can do in order
to make this look better than what it looks at this point in time.
The first and the foremost thing that you take a look at this one is that it says test1.
Now, let me run this entire class and show you this window.
Let's say that I did not have this class open and this is all I see.
So now when I look at this console,
I see that it says test1 and test.
This does not really give me any insight into what this test contains.
So in order to find out what test1 did for me,
I will have to go through the code and beat it.
How about we just name it in
a very meaningful fashion so that we don't really
have to go through the code to find out?
Because in real scenarios,
you would have hundreds of test cases and nobody is going to have time to go over
the test1 to 1,000 or test1 to 100 to see what each of those tests were doing.
So what I'm going do is I'm going to give it a meaningful name.
Meaningful name could be anything of your preference.
My preference is just going to be to write verify getCount in here so
that I at least know that I'm verifying the getCount method from the helper class.
So that is good enough for me.
You may find yourself writing different names depending
on what is the exact objective of testing that particular unit,
and that is subject to your personal preference or whatever your project follows.
I would suggest that you follow whatever nomenclature you follow in your applications.
Back in the day though,
people used to write test in the very beginning of the class,
but I find that a little redundant because
at that point in time we did not have the test annotation.
So it made sense to add test in front of every method,
but I don't want to do that since we already have a test annotation available here,
which anyway depicts that it's a test.
Now, let's look at writing one more test for helper class,
and then as a short exercise,
I would suggest you write
one more test for one of the other methods that has not been explained to you.
So let me start with test,
public void and verify,
let's take a look at this class.
I'm thinking I'm going to call getStats,
verify getStats, and what does it take? It takes expYears.
I'm going to get that from here,
expYears, which is a list of integers,
and I'm going to assertEquals and
I'm going to assert the getStats method.
So I need to call that getStats method,
Helper.getStats, and I'm going to pass yrsOfExperience into it.
So now what this is going to give me,
it gives an IntSummaryStatistics.
I am going to call getMax on this.
So now what this method does,
if you go through, let me just quickly walk you through that.
So here it gives you the summary of statistics,
and the return type is IntSummaryStatistics.
It's in both method,
and running getMax on it is going to give me 13,
4, 15, 6, 17, 19.
It will give me 19.
So my expected is 19,
and this is my actual.
So let's run this.
Great. So this was our second successful test case,
and what I'm trying to do here is I'm trying to make
a place holder for showing another extremely good functionality of assertEquals,
which is comparing arrays or lists pretty much.
This is actually a list comparison.
So I'm going to copy this out and I'm going to create expectedList.
So that is my expected and this is my actual.
So what I'm trying to verify here is,
are these two lists comparable?
Are these two lists,
if they're compared using assertEquals,
is the value or the output correct?
So let me run this.
Great. So assertEquals is able to take even a list of integer and is able to verify that.
It doesn't have to be like just an integer,
it doesn't have to be just a string comparison,
it can verify or compare the list of integers as well.
Let's explore assertEquals again,
but this time instead of a list of integers,
we are going to test arrays.
So we have a test and we have
a public void compare_arrays.
Now, I use underscores so that it's easier to read.
I do not like camel case here,
and here I'm going to have an int array and let's call it the yrs.
I'm going to create an array 10,14, and 2,
and I'm going to create another array and call
it expectedYrs 10,14, 2.
Now I'm going to run assertEquals on this and do
expected years versus actual, or what did I call it?
Yrs. Now I'm going to run this.
Let's see what happens in this case.
Okay. This failed.
Now, it's very easy to see what happened here.
So we use assertEquals in order to compare two arrays.
So assertEquals did not really compare the values of the arrays,
but instead it compared the actual object.
Therefore, since it's not the same object,
it failed. How do we fix this?
What I'm going to do is I'm going to call another method on this called ArrayEquals,
and we will add the expectedYrs and yrs into it and we'll run this again.
Great. So this is how we would test or assert arrays.
Now I challenge you to write one of the tests for one of these methods.
How about you go over get merged list and write a JUnit for that in this class.
If you've been following along,
you would have all these tests already,
and all I want you to do is look at this method and write a JUnit test for this.